# Project Synopsis

Pharmaceutical contamination has become an increasing concern as the overall drug use around the world increases through prescription and over-the-counter medications. It has recently been classified as an emerging global contaminant. The increase in drug contamination mixed with the increase in global temperature produces a further concern as drug toxicity is known to change the toxicity levels of drugs. Overall, this poses a danger to aquatic organisms exposed to these contaminants. Invertebrates are considered an early warning signal in many aquatic environments and have been evaluated to understand possible ecosystem responses to other stressors. Here our objective was to evaluate Hemigrapsus oregonensis (hairy shore crab) and its physiological responses to increasing temperature (13° and 27° C), increasing NSAID contamination through Ibuprofen (0 ug/L, 12.5 ug, and 62.5 ug), and the combination of the two. To look at this, we evaluated the oxygen consumption rate and glucose levels. We hypothesized that crabs exposed to warmer temperatures or higher doses of ibuprofen would have higher oxygen consumption rates and lower levels of glucose than crabs exposed to ambient water temperatures due to stress-induced energy production. Therefore, crabs exposed to the high temperature and high dosage of ibuprofen would experience the highest oxygen consumption and the lowest glucose levels of our treatments.

The experiment included 18 total crabs, with three different ibuprofen doses in each temperature for a total of six tanks (ambient control, ambient low dose, ambient high dose, high control, high low dose, and high high dose). Each tank had three crabs in it. Each week water was changed and re-dosed with ibuprofen. Also each week, resazurin assays were taken from one representative crab from each group to collect oxygen consumption rates. These rates were standardized by weight. At the end of the two week study, hemolymph was taken from all remaining crabs (2 crab mortalities occurred during the study) and glucose levels were run and averaged.

We found after the first week of the experiment within the ambient group, oxygen consumption rates revealed that crabs in the no drug treatment had the highest oxygen consumption. However, during the second week of measurements, the crab in the high dose had the highest oxygen consumption rate. In the first week for the high temperature treatments, we saw the highest oxygen consumption rate for the crab in the high temperature control. The crab in the high temperature control continued to have the highest oxygen consumption rate and there was a narrower spread of rates for the three dosage groups. The high temperature groups had lower oxygen consumption than the ambient temperature groups. For glucose, average hemolymph glucose levels were highest for the crabs living in the ambient control tank, followed by the crabs in the high temperature, high dose; high temperature, low dose; ambient, high dose; high temperature control; and ambient temperature, low dose treatments.
